docs/index.rst, before:

The dtcwt library
=================

This library provides support for computing 1D, 2D and 3D dual-tree complex
wavelet transforms and their inverse in Python. The interface is simple and
easy to use. As a quick example, a 1D DT-CWT can be performed from the Python
console in a single line::

    >>> import dtcwt
    >>> Yl, Yh = dtcwt.dtwavexfm([1,2,3,4], nlevels=3) # 3 levels, default wavelets

The interface is intentionally similar to the existing MATLAB dual-tree complex
wavelet transform toolbox provided by `Prof. Nick Kingsbury
<http://www-sigproc.eng.cam.ac.uk/~ngk/>`_. This library is intended to ease
the porting of algorithms written using the original MATLAB toolbox to Python.

The library also includes an OpenCL-based implementation of the wavelet
transform which can accelerate computation even on CPU-only devices.

Features of note
````````````````

The features of the ``dtcwt`` library are:

* 1D, 2D and 3D forward and inverse Dual-tree Complex Wavelet Transform
  implementations.
* API similarity with the DTCWT MATLAB toolbox.
* Automatic selection of single versus double precision calculation.
* Built-in support for the most common complex wavelet families.

Contents
````````

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    gettingstarted
    variant
    backends
    registration
    examples
    reference


Licence
```````

The original toolbox is copyrighted and there are some restrictions on use
which are outlined in the file
:download:`ORIGINAL_README.txt<../ORIGINAL_README.txt>`.
Aside from portions directly derived from the original MATLAB toolbox, any
additions in this library and this documentation are licensed under the
2-clause BSD licence as documented in the file
:download:`COPYING.txt<../COPYING.txt>`.

.. vim:sw=4:sts=4:et

Commit message:

docs: make contents more priminant and useful in index

docs/index.rst, after:

The dtcwt library
=================

This library provides support for computing 1D, 2D and 3D dual-tree complex
wavelet transforms and their inverse in Python along with some signal
processing algorithms which make use of the DTCWT.

Contents
````````

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    gettingstarted
    variant
    backends
    registration
    examples
    reference

Features of note
````````````````

The features of the ``dtcwt`` library are:

* 1D, 2D and 3D forward and inverse Dual-tree Complex Wavelet Transform
  implementations.
* API similarity with the DTCWT MATLAB toolbox.
* Automatic selection of single versus double precision calculation.
* Built-in support for the most common complex wavelet families.

Licence
```````

The original toolbox is copyrighted and there are some restrictions on use
which are outlined in the file
:download:`ORIGINAL_README.txt<../ORIGINAL_README.txt>`.
Aside from portions directly derived from the original MATLAB toolbox, any
additions in this library and this documentation are licensed under the
2-clause BSD licence as documented in the file
:download:`COPYING.txt<../COPYING.txt>`.

.. vim:sw=4:sts=4:et
